src/architecture.rst, before:

.. Benchmarking Suite
.. Copyright 2014-2017 Engineering Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A.

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
.. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. Developed in the ARTIST EU project (www.artist-project.eu) and in the
.. CloudPerfect EU project (https://cloudperfect.eu/)

#################
Architecture
#################

Software Modules
================

The Benchmarking Suite is distributed in four modules:

+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.core``   | the core library (all other  modules depend on it) with the definition of      |
|                       | types and the fundamental framework for the extension of the Benchmarking      |
|                       | Suite                                                                          |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.stdlib`` | a collection of benchmark tests configuration files and support for some Cloud |
|                       | Providers                                                                      |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.cli``    | a bash command line tool to manage tests and results                           |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.rest``   | an HTTP server and a REST API to interact with the Benchmarking Suite          |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| asd                   | asd                                                                            |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Model
=====

.. in this section we are using the https://yuml.me/ service to generate UML diagrams on the fly providing the description of the diagram in the URL directly. We split the URL in different lines to improve the readability

The Benchmarking Suite is designed to be very generic and extensible. The main concept is the **BenchmarkExecution** that is the execution of a **Benchmark** in one **ExecutionEnvironment** provided by a **ServiceProvider**.

With this concepts, it is easy to model, for instance, the execution of the *YCSB* benchmark on a *Virtual Machine* provided by *Amazon AWS*.

.. image:: https://yuml.me/diagram/scruffy;dir:TB/class/
                [ExecutionEnvironment]0..*-1[ServiceProvider],
                [BenchmarkingExecution]0..*-1[Benchmark],
                [BenchmarkingExecution]1..*-1[ExecutionEnvironment]
    :align: center

Since it is frequent to execute multiple tests against the same Service Provider, the Benchmarking Suite has the concept of **BenchmarkingSession**. that can include one or more executions of the same provider.

.. image:: https://yuml.me/diagram/scruffy;dir:TB/class/[BenchmarkingSession]-1..*[BenchmarkingExecution],[BenchmarkingSession]-1[ServiceProvider],[BenchmarkingExecution]-[ExecutionEnvironment],[ExecutionEnvironment]-1[ServiceProvider].png
    :align: center

By default, all the executions of the same session share the same **ExecutionEnvironment**.

Commit message:

backends module added to documentation

src/architecture.rst, after:

.. Benchmarking Suite
.. Copyright 2014-2017 Engineering Ingegneria Informatica S.p.A.

.. Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.. you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.. You may obtain a copy of the License at
.. http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.. distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.. WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.. limitations under the License.

.. Developed in the ARTIST EU project (www.artist-project.eu) and in the
.. CloudPerfect EU project (https://cloudperfect.eu/)

#################
Architecture
#################



Software Modules
================


The Benchmarking Suite is distributed in five modules:

+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.core``   | the core library (all other  modules depend on it) with the definition of      |
|                       | types and the fundamental framework for the extension of the Benchmarking      |
|                       | Suite                                                                          |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.stdlib`` | a collection of benchmark tests configuration files and support for some Cloud |
|                       | Providers                                                                      |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.cli``    | a bash command line tool to manage tests and results                           |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.rest``   | an HTTP server and a REST API to interact with the Benchmarking Suite          |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``benchsuite.backend``| connectors for the supported storage backends                                  |
+-----------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------+




Model
=====

.. in this section we are using the https://yuml.me/ service to generate UML diagrams on the fly providing the description of the diagram in the URL directly. We split the URL in different lines to improve the readability

The Benchmarking Suite is designed to be very generic and extensible. The main concept is the **BenchmarkExecution** that is the execution of a **Benchmark** in one **ExecutionEnvironment** provided by a **ServiceProvider**.

With this concepts, it is easy to model, for instance, the execution of the *YCSB* benchmark on a *Virtual Machine* provided by *Amazon AWS*.

.. image:: https://yuml.me/diagram/scruffy;dir:TB/class/
                [ExecutionEnvironment]0..*-1[ServiceProvider],
                [BenchmarkingExecution]0..*-1[Benchmark],
                [BenchmarkingExecution]1..*-1[ExecutionEnvironment]
    :align: center

Since it is frequent to execute multiple tests against the same Service Provider, the Benchmarking Suite has the concept of **BenchmarkingSession**. that can include one or more executions of the same provider.

.. image:: https://yuml.me/diagram/scruffy;dir:TB/class/[BenchmarkingSession]-1..*[BenchmarkingExecution],[BenchmarkingSession]-1[ServiceProvider],[BenchmarkingExecution]-[ExecutionEnvironment],[ExecutionEnvironment]-1[ServiceProvider].png
    :align: center

By default, all the executions of the same session share the same **ExecutionEnvironment**.
